On first glance, when reviewing the summary of the district’s collective performance, finding that only 65% of all students achieved passing scores in both math and reading would seem to indicate that the district as a whole is in a desperate situation. However, when the schools are delineated into the categories of ‘charter’ and ‘district’ schools, the emergent evidence shows that the desperate situation belongs solely to the ‘district’ faction of schools.  Analyzing student performance based on school size and per-student budget continues to illuminate the segregating factors of the district’s relatively failing and succeeding schools.  Size, budget and school type are clearly interrelated, charter schools being smaller and having smaller budgets, district schools being bigger and having bigger budgets in this data.  As such, stating that the district schools, the largest schools, and the schools that have the largest budgets, are performing poorly, is three different descriptive routes to the same common conclusion.  To understand what is causing the discrepancy in performance between charter schools and district schools, researchers would probably need to spend some time teasing apart the potential causal relationships of variables like ‘size’ and ‘budget’.  Though these datasets alone cannot yield any definitive conclusions about causation, the dataframes breaking down performance by grade level might suggest an insight about the role of population selection differences.  When math and reading scores are viewed across grade levels, we see that for any given school scores generally remain static.  The charter/district performance discrepancy is, of course, borne out in this level of the data where we see that math scores especially show a pronounced trend wherein charter and district schools are separated by a fairly consistent gulf of 5-6 percentage points.  That this trend is consistent even among 9th graders at different schools may indicate that the performance discrepancy between charter and district schools is partly explained by characteristic differences in their respective student populations, which the district’s 39,170 students are nonrandomly split into.